BBC Homepage
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Sign in
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
More menu
Search BBC
BBC News
Home
War in Ukraine
Coronation
Coronavirus
Climate
Video
World
Asia
UK
Business
More
Asia
China
India
ADVERTISEMENT

Imran Khan: Mass protests across Pakistan after ex-PM arrest
Published
9 hours ago

Share

Media caption,
Watch dramatic arrest of Pakistan's former prime minister

By Simon Fraser & Caroline Davies
in London and Islamabad
Violent clashes have broken out in Pakistan between security forces and supporters of former prime minister Imran Khan after he was arrested on Tuesday.

Protests are erupting nationwide, and at least one person has been killed in the city of Quetta.

The United States and UK have called for adherence to the "rule of law".

Mr Khan was arrested by security forces at the High Court in the capital, Islamabad.

Dramatic footage showed dozens of officers arriving and detaining the 70-year-old, who was bundled into a vehicle and driven away.

He was appearing in court on charges of corruption, which he says are politically motivated.

Mobile data services in the country were suspended on the instructions of the interior ministry on Friday as protests grew, many of them taking place in front of army compounds.

Pakistan's army plays a prominent role in politics, sometimes seizing power in military coups, and, on other occasions, pulling levers behind the scenes.

Many analysts believe Mr Khan's election win in 2018 happened with the help of the military. Now in opposition, he is one of its most vocal critics, and analysts say the army's popularity has fallen.

Footage from Lahore posted on Twitter appeared to show a crowd breaking into the military corps commander's house destroying furniture and belongings inside.

Speaking from Washington, the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he wanted to make sure that "whatever happens in Pakistan is consistent with the rule of law, with the constitution".

UK Foreign Secretary James Cleverly, speaking alongside Mr Blinken, noted that Britain enjoyed "a longstanding and close relationship" with Commonwealth member Pakistan, and wanted to "see the rule of law adhered to".

On Tuesday evening, supporters of Imran Khan gathered outside the Pakistan High Commission in London to protest against his arrest.

'Chaos and anarchy'
Mr Khan was ousted as PM in April last year and has been campaigning for early elections since then.

General elections are due to be held later this year.

Speaking to the BBC's Newshour, Mr Khan's spokesman, Raoof Hasan, said he expected "the worst" and that the arrest could plunge the country "into chaos and anarchy".

"We're facing multiple crises. There is an economic crisis, there is a political crisis, there is a cost of livelihood crisis and consequently this occasion will be a catharsis for them to step out and I fear a fair amount of violence is going to be back," he said.

A member of Mr Khan's legal team, Raja Mateen, said undue force had been used against him at the court.

"Mr Khan went into the biometric office for the biometrics. The rangers went there, they broke the windows, they hit Mr Khan on the head with a baton," said Mr Mateen.

Mr Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party called on its supporters to protest. In the hours after he was detained, violence was reported from cities including Lahore, Karachi and Peshawar.

On the streets of Islamabad, hundreds of protesters blocked one of the main highways in and out of the capital.

People pulled down street signs and parts of overpasses, lit fires and threw stones. During the hour or so that the BBC was there, no police or authorities were visible.

Supporters of Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan attend a protest against his arrest, in Karachi, Pakistan, 09 May 2023.
IMAGE SOURCE,EPA
Image caption,
Protesters have blocked roads in protest in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city
Protesters said they were angry about Imran Khan's arrest.

"This is absolutely the last straw," said Farida Roedad.

"Let there be anarchy, let there be chaos. If there is no Imran, there's nothing left in Pakistan. No one is there to take over."

Writing on social media, police in Islamabad said five police officers had been injured and 43 protesters arrested.

It said at least 10 people, including six police officers, had been injured in the south-western city of Quetta in clashes between Mr Khan's supporters and security forces - with one protester killed.

Police use a water cannon during clashes with supporters of Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan at a protest against his arrest, in Lahore, Pakistan, 09 May 2023.
IMAGE SOURCE,EPA
Image caption,
A water cannon was deployed by police against protesters in Lahore
A statement from the inspector general of Punjab police said the arrest of Mr Khan had been ordered because he was accused of "corruption and corrupt practices".

The case involves allegations over the allotment of land in the so-called Al-Qadir Trust, which is owned by Mr Khan and his wife, Dawn newspaper reported.

Mr Khan, who is being held at an undisclosed location, denies breaking any law.

In a video message filmed as he travelled to Islamabad - and released by the PTI before his arrest - Mr Khan said he was ready for what lay ahead.

"Come to me with warrants, my lawyers will be there," he said. "If you want to send me to jail, I am prepared for it."

Piles of tear gas shells surround Pakistan's Imran Khan
IMAGE SOURCE,REUTERS
Image caption,
Imran Khan has been the main opposition leader since being ousted by his opponents in parliament a year ago
Security was tight in the centre of the capital for the former PM's court appearance.

Dozens of cases have been brought against Mr Khan since he was ousted from power.

The security forces have tried to detain him on a number of previous occasions at his Lahore residence, but were blocked by his supporters, resulting in fierce clashes.

On Tuesday, police had blocked roads into Islamabad, so the number of supporters with Imran Khan was not as high as on previous occasions, making it easier to arrest him.

Polarised politics are tearing Pakistan apart
Khan's chaotic court summons in 60 seconds
The cricket hero bowled out as Pakistan's PM
He was elected prime minister in 2018, but fell out with Pakistan's powerful army. After a series of defections, he lost his majority in parliament. He was ousted after he lost a confidence vote in April 2022, four years into his tenure.

Flames rise from the Radio Pakistan premises after it was set on fire during clashes between police and supporters of Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan protesting against his arrest, in Peshawar, Pakistan, 09 May 2023.
IMAGE SOURCE,EPA
Image caption,
Protesters in Peshawar set fire to the Radio Pakistan premises in protest against the arrest of former Prime Minister Imran Khan
Since then, he has been a vocal critic of the government and the country's army.

In October, he was disqualified from holding public office, accused of incorrectly declaring details of presents from foreign dignitaries and proceeds from their alleged sale.

The next month, he survived a gun attack on his convoy while holding a protest march.

On Monday, the military warned him against making "baseless allegations" after he again accused a senior officer of plotting to kill him.

Related Topics
Pakistan
Imran Khan
More on this story
Polarised politics are tearing Pakistan apart
5 days ago
A supporter of Pakistan's former prime minister Imran Khan, runs amid tear gas fired by police during a protest rally in Swabi on May 25, 2022.
Pakistan breaking law in arrest attempt - Imran Khan
15 March
Piles of tear gas shells surround Pakistan's Imran Khan
Imran Khan's chaotic court summons in 60 seconds
18 March
BBC's Carrie Davies with Imran Khan
What led to Pakistan PM Imran Khan's downfall
9 April 2022
Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan. File photo
Top Stories
Jury finds Trump sexually abused writer in NY store
Published
3 hours ago
Mass protests across Pakistan after ex-PM arrest
Published
9 hours ago
1,000 days imprisoned in China for an unknown reason
Published
7 hours ago
ADVERTISEMENT

Features
India’s booming population needs more women at work
Factory, Worker, Textile Industry - A factory worker standing below the textile yarn and looking at the camera
1,000 days imprisoned in China for an unknown reason
Close up photo of Australian journalist Cheng Lei, who is imprisoned in China.
'It's just happiness' Eurovision fans descend on Liverpool
Australia
'War' in Milan - an abandoned game, an eternal image
AC Milan goalkeeper Dida braces himself as flares fall on the pitch at the 2005 Champions League quarter-final second leg
Turkey decides: Voters face stark choices for presidency
Supporters of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wave Turkish flags and cheer during his election campaign rally in Ankara, on April 30, 2023
Eurovision Q&A: Who the hell are Teya and Salena?
Teya & Salena
Russia's 'nervous' Victory Day parade... in 78 seconds. VideoRussia's 'nervous' Victory Day parade... in 78 seconds
Russian service members take part in a military parade on Victory Day, which marks the 78th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in World War Two, in Red Square in central Moscow, Russia May 9, 2023
The burger McDonald's got wrong
China's roujiamo burger made with pork and flatbread
Who is spreading false rumours about Texas gunman?
People visit the memorial setup near the scene of a mass shooting at the Allen Premium Outlets mall on May 9, 2023 in Allen, Texas.
Elsewhere on the BBC
Are protein powders bad for you?
Scoop of powder
Why Gen Z are rejecting 'prestige' jobs
Smile at table
The Manhattan island sold for $1
New York
Most Read
1
Jury finds Trump sexually abused writer in NY store
2
Mass protests across Pakistan after ex-PM arrest
3
How Republican women reacted to Trump verdict
4
Briton pleads guilty in US to 2020 Twitter hack
5
The fallout from Trump's sexual abuse verdict
6
US bereavement author charged with husband's murder
7
French journalist killed while reporting in Ukraine
8
US girl shot in head while playing hide-and-seek
9
Deadly shooting near Africa's oldest synagogue
10
Swiss villagers told to flee monster rockslide
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Home
News
Sport
Reel
Worklife
Travel
Future
Culture
Music
TV
Weather
Sounds
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Why you can trust the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
© 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.